Now, that we've defined data streams,
stream processing, and events,
let's walk through a few real-world examples of how we might use stream processing.
One of the first places many organizations choose to
introduce stream processing is in log analysis.
Modern technology companies often run tens to thousands of
microservices all of which are constantly producing logs.
These logs are full of information which can be mined for user behavior patterns,
failure prediction, and debugging.
The only problem for many of these organizations is how do you process
the huge quantities of log data being produced in one place?
So you can see on the screen here,
this is a made-up scenario,
we have a bunch of servers that are spitting out logs at a very fast rate.
How is it that we can take this information and
actually perform some interesting analytics on it?
This is hard to do with traditional systems.
To solve this problem,
each log produced by every micro service could become an event in a data stream.
Then these companies can build stream processing applications that
analyze and join on the events in these data streams to find insights in the data.
So as you can see as the logs happen,
there being siloed out into an event stream.
Another common use case for streaming data and stream processing is for web analytics.
Modern web applications measure almost every action a user takes on their site.
Button clicks, page load times,
and session duration are just a few common examples.
These actions can add up fast.
If every user session generates tens of events per minute and you have millions of users,
your web application is suddenly generating a significant amount of data.
Ingesting and processing this volume is difficult.
To deal with this influx,
companies utilize stream processing to analyze data as it's generated.
Not only does this lessen
the long-term processing burden for many companies as the working dataset is smaller,
but it also enables these companies to benefit from real-time analysis instead of
long running batch analyses that may only update once a day or once an hour.
Right sharing applications are heavy users of stream processing for real-time analysis.
As demand goes up or down on a neighborhood,
price will increase or decrease.
Demand is measured by searches,
events in the area,
and the ratio of available cars and
other environmental factors such as the current weather.
The sheer volume of events in a system such as
this and the quick turnaround times required to
generate pricing recommendations is well-suited to stream processing applications.
As events are generated in real time,
pricing algorithms can analyze various data streams to adjust the recommended pricing.
A traditional batch processing approach would simply be unable to keep
up with the constantly evolving real-world events that determine pricing.
By the time a batch job is completed,
it's very likely that market conditions will have
changed and the pricing model will be out of date.
When we think about the stock market,
we typically picture stock tickers and graphs going up and down throughout the day.
Prices for stocks fluctuate as fast as our computers can measure time.
This generates a significant amount of event data.
Beyond the price itself,
financial analysis is also concerned with
other signals in the market such as news regarding
a company or stock and sentiment on social media platforms such as Twitter and Facebook.
Financial companies ingest this high-volume event data and make,
buy, or sell decisions in real-time using stream processing.
Batch processing would simply be too slow and
infrequent to properly capture the rapid nature of the market.
By the time your batch processing job is completed,
the market has already moved on.
You can see on this slide we're factoring in
a number of things to make our purchase calculation.
We're looking at stock price adjustments throughout the day,
news about the company,
and sentiment analysis from a social media platform like Twitter,
and feeding all that into a purchase calculation which is making buy or sell decisions.